Temporal Nexus: Main Encyclopedia (#3053)
temporalio/documentation: docs/encyclopedia/temporal-nexus-service-operations.mdx

---
id: nexus-services-operations
title: Nexus Services and Operations
sidebar_label: Nexus Service and Operations
description: Discover how Nexus Service and Operations enable the creation of well-defined API contracts for sharing capabilities across team and Namespace boundaries, leveraging Temporal's durable and scalable infrastructure.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
slug: /temporalnexus/services-operations
keywords:
  - Nexus Services
  - Nexus Operations
  - API contracts
  - durable execution
  - Temporal SDK
tags:
  - distributed systems
  - integration
  - temporal
---

### Nexus Services {#nexus-services}

> A Nexus `Service` is a named collection of arbitrary-duration Nexus `Operations` that provide an API contract suitable for sharing across team boundaries. Nexus Services are registered with a Temporal `Worker` that is listening on the target Namespace and Task Queue for an Endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Nexus `Service` is a named collection of arbitrary-duration Nexus `Operations` that provide an API contract suitable for sharing across team boundaries. 
Nexus Services are registered with a Temporal `Worker` that is listening on the target Namespace and Task Queue for an Endpoint.
```

> For example a Nexus Service is often registered in the same Worker as the underlying Workflow they abstract:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example a Nexus Service is often registered in the same Worker as the underlying Workflows they abstract:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's snipsync this. It's too easy for this to become stale otherwise.

func main() {
	c, err := client.Dial(client.Options{})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to create client", err)
	}
	defer c.Close()

	w := worker.New(c, taskQueue, worker.Options{})
	service := nexus.NewService(service.HelloServiceName)
	err = service.Register(handler.EchoOperation, handler.HelloOperation)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to register operations", err)
	}
	w.RegisterNexusService(service)
	w.RegisterWorkflow(handler.HelloHandlerWorkflow)

	err = w.Run(worker.InterruptCh())
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to start worker", err)
	}
}
```

### Nexus Operations {#nexus-operations}

> Nexus `Operations` are not intrinsically durable, but can be made durable by backing them with Temporal primitives like a `Workflow`, `Update`, or `Signal`. The Temporal SDK provides helper functions to create Operations that may be registered with a Service in a Temporal Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nexus `Operations` are not intrinsically durable, but can be made durable by backing them with Temporal primitives like a `Workflow`, `Update`, or `Signal`. 
The Temporal SDK provides helper functions to create Operations that may be registered with a Service in a Temporal Worker.
```

> Calling a Nexus `Operation` from a caller `Workflow` presents as a non-blocking, arbitrary duration operation. This schedules the `Operation` with the caller’s Temporal cluster and does not block caller `Workflow` execution. The caller’s Nexus Machinery is responsible for making the underlying Nexus RPC calls and updating the caller’s Workflow history with the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling a Nexus `Operation` from a caller `Workflow` presents as a non-blocking, arbitrary duration operation. 
This schedules the `Operation` with the caller’s Temporal cluster and does not block caller `Workflow` execution. 
The caller’s Nexus Machinery is responsible for making the underlying Nexus RPC calls and updating the caller’s Workflow history with the result.
```

#### Operation Lifecycle

The Temporal Go SDK is used for the operation lifecycle examples below.

Handlers are created with the Go SDK using:

- `temporalnexus.NewWorkflowRunOperation()`
  - start a `Workflow` as an asynchronous operation
- `temporalnexus.NewSyncOperation()`
  - invoke an underlying `Query` or `Signal` as a synchronous operation
  - invoke an `Update` as a synchronous operation
  - execute arbitrary code as a synchronous operation

Caller Workflows use the following to execute a Nexus Operation:

- `svc := Workflow.CreateNexusClient(endpoint, service)` and then
- `svc.ExecuteOperation()`

##### Asynchronous Operation Lifecycle {#asynchronous-operation-lifecycle}

> An asynchronous Nexus Operation may take up to 2 months to complete, to allow for callback URL token validation with asymmetric key rotation at those intervals.

Reviewer 2: nit: the 2 month limit is only enforced in Cloud today.

Reviewer 2: Wonder if we should expand on this and explain ScheduleToCloseTimeout.

Author: Can explain ScheduleToCloseTimeout in another iteration.

> The lifecycle of an asynchronous Nexus `Operation`:

Reviewer 2: We have sequence diagrams for these. Those may be a bit easier to follow than bullet points for some people.

https://github.com/temporalio/proposals/blob/master/nexus/sdk-go.md#sequence

Author: This is great. This can definitely go in a rework.

1. Caller’s Workflow does a `myServiceClient.ExecuteOperation()`
   1. **`NexusOperationScheduled`** added to caller’s event history
   2. Nexus `Operation` added to Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster

>    3. Immediately returns a Nexus `OperationHandle`, so the Workflow doesn’t block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Immediately returns a Nexus `OperationHandle`, so the Workflow doesn’t block
```

>    3. Immediately returns a Nexus `OperationHandle`, so the Workflow doesn’t block.

Reviewer 2: `NexusOperationFuture`.

   4. Caller’s Workflow can interact with the `Operation` using the `OperationHandle`

>       1. `WaitStarted()`, `GetResult()`, and the ability to cancel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      1. `WaitStarted()`, `GetResult()`, and the ability to cancel
```

>       1. `WaitStarted()`, `GetResult()`, and the ability to cancel.

Reviewer 2: Please make sure this is up-to-date with the actual SDK API.

2. Start Nexus operation on the target cluster is attempted by the caller’s Temporal cluster
   1. Via the Nexus Machinery in the target cluster

>    2. Retries are processed by the Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster and tracked as part of the caller Workflow, similar to Activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Retries are processed by the Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster and tracked as part of the caller Workflow, similar to Activities
```

3. Nexus `Operation handler` in the target cluster processes the Nexus `Operation`

>    1. `Operation handler` pulls operation `Task` from Task Queue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   1. `Operation handler` pulls a Nexus `Task` from Task Queue
```

>    2. `Operation handler` starts a `Workflow` in the target cluster with attached Nexus `Callback`

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention the request ID or bidi link here?

>    3. Nexus operation `id` is returned since the Nexus operation is asynchronous

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   3. Nexus operation `ID` is returned since the Nexus operation is asynchronous
```

   4. **`NexusOperationStarted`** added to caller’s event history

>    5. Operation `id` is added to the caller’s operation `OperationHandle`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   5. Operation `ID` is associated with the caller's `NexusOperationFuture` and the `GetNexusOperationExecution` future is unblocked
```

> 4. Handler’s Nexus Machinery sends a Nexus completion `Callback` when the `Workflow` has completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Handler's Nexus Machinery sends a Nexus completion `Callback` when the `Workflow` reaches a terminal state.
```

   1. Operation `result` is returned via callback since the operation is asynchronous
   2. **`NexusOperationCompleted`** added to caller’s event history

> 5. Caller’s Workflow `handle.GetResult()` returns the result

Reviewer 2: Also outdated.

Author: what should be here instead or should #5 be removed? @bergundy

##### Synchronous Operations Lifecycle

> An synchronous Nexus Operation may take up to 10 seconds to complete and will then timeout.

Reviewer 2: I'm correcting this but this statement is confusing IMHO, it's not the operation that can take up to 10 seconds, it's a single attempt to start the operation.

```suggestion
A synchronous Nexus Operation may take up to 10 seconds to complete and will then timeout.
```

> The lifecycle of a synchronous Nexus `Operation`, for example to do a `Query` or a `Signal`:

Reviewer 2: The suggestions above also need to be applied to sync operations.

1. Caller’s Workflow does a `myServiceClient.ExecuteOperation()`
   1. **`NexusOperationScheduled`** added to caller’s event history
   2. Nexus `Operation` added to Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster

>    3. Immediately returns an `OperationHandle`, so the Workflow does not block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. Immediately returns an `OperationHandle`, so the Workflow does not block
```

   4. Caller’s Workflow can interact with the `Operation` using the `OperationHandle`
      1. `WaitStarted()`, `GetResult()`
2. Start Nexus operation on the target cluster is attempted by the caller’s Temporal cluster
   1. Via the Nexus Machinery in the target cluster

>    2. Retries are processed by the Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster and tracked as part of the caller Workflow, similar to Activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Retries are processed by the Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster and tracked as part of the caller Workflow, similar to Activities
```

3. Nexus `Operation handler` in the target cluster processes the Nexus `Operation`
   1. `Operation handler` pulls operation `Task` from Task Queue
   2. `Operation handler` starts a `Workflow` in the target cluster
   3. Operation `result` is returned inline, since the operation is synchronous
   4. **`NexusOperationCompleted`** added to caller’s event history
4. Caller’s Workflow `handle.GetResult()` returns the result

##### Executing Arbitrary (non-durable code) from a Sync Handler {#executing-arbitrary-(non-durable-code)-from-a-sync-handler}

> Nexus `Operation handlers` can execute arbitrary code, but unlike Activities they should be relatively short-lived, due to the lack of [heartbeats](https://community.temporal.io/t/best-practices-for-long-running-Activities/934) and a default 10 second NexusOperationStarted timeout. Nexus `Operation handlers` are not required to use underlying Temporal primitives like a `Workflow` or `Signal`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nexus `Operation handlers` can execute arbitrary code, but unlike Activities they should be relatively short-lived, due to the lack of [heartbeats](https://community.temporal.io/t/best-practices-for-long-running-Activities/934) and a default 10 second NexusOperationStarted timeout. 
Nexus `Operation handlers` are not required to use underlying Temporal primitives like a `Workflow` or `Signal`.
```

> Nexus `Operation handlers` can execute arbitrary code, but unlike Activities they should be relatively short-lived, due to the lack of [heartbeats](https://community.temporal.io/t/best-practices-for-long-running-Activities/934) and a default 10 second NexusOperationStarted timeout. Nexus `Operation handlers` are not required to use underlying Temporal primitives like a `Workflow` or `Signal`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nexus `Operation handlers` can execute arbitrary code, but unlike Activities they should be relatively short-lived, due to the lack of [heartbeats](https://community.temporal.io/t/best-practices-for-long-running-Activities/934) and a default 10 second timeout. Nexus `Operation handlers` may execute arbitrary code or use a Temporal Client to interact with Temporal APIs.
```

#### Automatic Retries

> Once the caller `Workflow` schedules an `Operation` with the caller’s Temporal cluster, the caller’s Nexus Machinery keeps trying to start the `Operation`, with automatic retries and exponential backoff. If a Nexus `Operation` returns a [retryable error](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/13d6cd8cf7a4ba0c4660cf98f672bbd645dca3e7/components/nexusoperations/executors.go#L659) when attempting to start, the `Operation` it will be retried up to the [default retry policy’s](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/de7c8879e103be666a7b067cc1b247f0ac63c25c/components/nexusoperations/config.go#L111) max attempts and expiration interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the caller `Workflow` schedules an `Operation` with the caller’s Temporal cluster, the caller’s Nexus Machinery keeps trying to start the `Operation`, with automatic retries and exponential backoff. 
If a Nexus `Operation` returns a [retryable error](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/13d6cd8cf7a4ba0c4660cf98f672bbd645dca3e7/components/nexusoperations/executors.go#L659) when attempting to start, the `Operation` it will be retried up to the [default retry policy’s](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/de7c8879e103be666a7b067cc1b247f0ac63c25c/components/nexusoperations/config.go#L111) max attempts and expiration interval.
```

> Once the caller `Workflow` schedules an `Operation` with the caller’s Temporal cluster, the caller’s Nexus Machinery keeps trying to start the `Operation`, with automatic retries and exponential backoff. If a Nexus `Operation` returns a [retryable error](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/13d6cd8cf7a4ba0c4660cf98f672bbd645dca3e7/components/nexusoperations/executors.go#L659) when attempting to start, the `Operation` it will be retried up to the [default retry policy’s](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/de7c8879e103be666a7b067cc1b247f0ac63c25c/components/nexusoperations/config.go#L111) max attempts and expiration interval.

Reviewer 2: That's too much information for these docs.
Also, I feel like I've read this point at least once in these docs already. We're repeating ourselves and hurting the overall comprehensibility.

#### Execution Semantics

##### At-least-once Execution Semantics and Idempotency

> Since the caller's Nexus Machinery will keep trying to start the Operation over and over, the Nexus `Operation` handler should be idempotent just like Activities should be idempotent. It's not required in all cases, but highly recommended in general. With retries an Operation, like Activities, has at-least-once execution semantics, so an Operation should be idempotent as a general rule.

Reviewer 3: This probably needs a slight clarity rewrite to be a bit more explanatory to people who aren't super-familiar with Temporal -- reading it reminds me of our pre-2023 docs

Author: I agree, they can be reworked and rewritten after replay.

> Since the caller's Nexus Machinery will keep trying to start the Operation over and over, the Nexus `Operation` handler should be idempotent just like Activities should be idempotent. It's not required in all cases, but highly recommended in general. With retries an Operation, like Activities, has at-least-once execution semantics, so an Operation should be idempotent as a general rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the caller's Nexus Machinery will keep trying to start the Operation over and over, the Nexus `Operation` handler should be idempotent just like Activities should be idempotent. 
It's not required in all cases, but highly recommended in general. 
With retries an Operation, like Activities, has at-least-once execution semantics, so an Operation should be idempotent as a general rule.
```

##### At-most-once Execution Semantics via Underlying WorkflowIdReusePolicy

To dedupe work and get at-most-once execution semantics, an `Operation` can start a `Workflow` with a `WorkflowIdReusePolicy` of `RejectDuplicates` which only allows one `Workflow Execution` per `Workflow Id` within a `Namespace` for the retention period.

#### Versioning

Task Routing is the simplest way to version your service code.

> If you have a new backward-incompatible Nexus `Operation` Handler, start by using a different Service and Task Queue. The version may be part of the service name, for example prod.payments.v2. Callers can then migrate to the new version in their normal deployment schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a new backward-incompatible Nexus `Operation` Handler, start by using a different Service and Task Queue. 
The version may be part of the service name, for example prod.payments.v2. 
Callers can then migrate to the new version in their normal deployment schedule.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd probably recommend a separate endpoint TBH.
There's more to say on this topic, wire level compatibility is a topic that should be familiar to most devs but should be mentioned here for completeness.

Reviewer 4: Why different endpoint? To avoid versioning in your service name? Seems like a separate endpoint would be a 3rd option that may be useful, but would require more config (copying endpoint allowlist, etc.) and for all clients to update to use the new endpoint name and you have to maintain 2 worker fleets while everyone is migrating. This might be ok now with a single upstream target, but as endpoints get scoped more broadly (like prod-east or prod-west) it may be much harder to spin up a new endpoint just because one op had a breaking change.
```suggestion
If you have a new backward-incompatible Nexus `Operation` Handler, for example due to a wire-level incompatible breaking change, start by using a different Service and Task Queue. The version may be part of the service name, for example `prod.payments.v2`. Callers can then migrate to the new version in their normal deployment schedule.
```

> In the future we may support a form of [worker versioning](https://docs.temporal.io/workers#worker-versioning) for Services, but that is not currently in scope for the initial release.

Reviewer: Don't we not make promises about future stuff

Reviewer 2: We actually already integrate with worker versioning. The worker sends its build ID in the PollNexusTaskQueue requests and the service uses versioning information to dispatch tasks.

Reviewer 4: Got some feedback, let's remove this for now.
```suggestion
```

Nexus Services are registered with a Temporal Worker that is listening on the target Namespace and Task Queue for an Endpoint.

For example, a Nexus Service is often registered in the same Worker as the underlying Workflows they abstract:

```go
func main() {
	c, err := client.Dial(client.Options{})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to create client", err)
	}
	defer c.Close()

	w := worker.New(c, taskQueue, worker.Options{})
	service := nexus.NewService(service.HelloServiceName)
	err = service.Register(handler.EchoOperation, handler.HelloOperation)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to register operations", err)
	}
	w.RegisterNexusService(service)
	w.RegisterWorkflow(handler.HelloHandlerWorkflow)

	err = w.Run(worker.InterruptCh())
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalln("Unable to start worker", err)
	}
}
```

## Operations {#nexus-operations}

Nexus Operations are not intrinsically durable, but can be made durable by backing them with Temporal primitives like a Workflow, Update, or Signal. 
The Temporal SDK provides helper functions to create Operations that may be registered with a Service in a Temporal Worker.

> Calling a Nexus Operation from a caller Workflow presents as a non-blocking, arbitrary duration operation. This schedules the Operation with the caller’s Temporal Service and does not block caller Workflow execution. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Calling a Nexus Operation from a caller Workflow presents as a non-blocking, arbitrary duration operation. This schedules the Operation with the caller’s Temporal Service and does not block caller Workflow execution, unless the caller Workflow chooses to do so by waiting for the Nexus Operation to be started or in a final state (completed, failed, timed out, canceled).
```

The caller’s Nexus Machinery is responsible for making the underlying Nexus RPC calls and updating the caller’s Workflow history with the result.

### Operation Lifecycle {#operation-lifecycle}

> The Temporal Go SDK is used for the operation lifecycle examples below.

Reviewer 4: Would convert the Go SDK specific things to a generic, SDK independent description

> Handlers are created with the Go SDK using:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Nexus Operation handlers are created with the Temporal SDK:
```

> - `temporalnexus.NewWorkflowRunOperation()`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- New-Workflow-Run-Operation
```

  - Start a Workflow as an asynchronous operation.

> - `temporalnexus.NewSyncOperation()`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- New-Sync-Operation
```

  - Invoke an underlying Query or Signal as a synchronous operation.
  - Invoke an Update as a synchronous operation.
  - Execute arbitrary code as a synchronous operation.

> Caller Workflows use the following to execute a Nexus Operation:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Caller Workflows use Temporal SDK to execute a Nexus Operation.
```

> - `svc := Workflow.CreateNexusClient(endpoint, service)` and then

Reviewer 4: would add a link to the Develop / Go / Nexus section that cover this - after Public Preview

```suggestion
```

> - `svc.ExecuteOperation()`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

#### Asynchronous Operation Lifecycle {#asynchronous-operation-lifecycle}

> An asynchronous Nexus Operation may take up to 2 months to complete in Temporal Cloud, to allow for callback URL token validation with asymmetric key rotation at those intervals.

Reviewer 4: would link the 60 days to the evaluate / limits section that cover this in detail.

```suggestion
An asynchronous Nexus Operation may take up to 60 days to complete in Temporal Cloud, to allow for callback URL token validation with asymmetric key rotation at those intervals.
```

The lifecycle of an asynchronous Nexus Operation:

> 1. Caller’s Workflow does a `myServiceClient.ExecuteOperation()`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Caller’s Workflow executes a Nexus Operation using the Temporal SDK.
```

   1. **`NexusOperationScheduled`** added to caller’s Event History.
   2. Nexus Operation added to Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster.

>    3. Immediately returns a Nexus OperationHandle, so the Workflow doesn’t block.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   3. Caller Workflow doesn’t automatically block on a Nexus Operation.
```

>    4. Caller’s Workflow can interact with the Operation using the OperationHandle.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   4. Caller’s Workflow can interact with the Nexus Operation execution:
```

>       1. `WaitStarted()`, `GetResult()`, and the ability to cancel.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      1. Wait for the Nexus Operation to start
      2. Wait for the Operation result
      3. Cancel the Nexus Operation
```

> 2. Start Nexus operation on the target cluster is attempted by the caller’s Temporal cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. The caller’s Temporal cluster attempts to start the Nexus Operation on the target cluster via the Nexus Endpoint.
```

>    1. Via the Nexus Machinery in the target cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Nexus Machinery in the target cluster sync matches the Nexus request to a Worker polling the endpoint's 
   2.  target Namespace and Task Queue.
```

   2. Retries are processed by the Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster and tracked as part of the caller Workflow, similar to Activities.

> 3. Nexus Operation handler in the target cluster processes the Nexus Operation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Nexus Operation handler processes the Nexus Operation.
```

>    1. Operation handler pulls operation Task from Task Queue.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Handler Worker get a Nexus Task from Task Queue.
```

   2. Operation handler starts a Workflow in the target cluster with attached Nexus Callback.
   3. Nexus Operation ID is returned since the Nexus Operation is asynchronous.
   4. **`NexusOperationStarted`** added to caller’s Event History.

>    5. Operation ID is associated with the caller's `NexusOperationFuture` and the `GetNexusOperationExecution` future is unblocked.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   5. Operation ID is associated with the caller's `NexusOperationStarted` event and the caller Workflow is unblocked if waiting for `NexusOperationStarted` using the Temporal SDK.
```

4. Handler’s Nexus Machinery sends a Nexus completion Callback when the Workflow reaches a terminal state.
   1. Operation result is returned via callback since the operation is asynchronous.
   2. **`NexusOperationCompleted`** added to caller’s Event History.

> 5. Caller’s Workflow `handle.GetResult()` returns the result.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Caller’s Workflow code is returned the result if requested.
```

#### Synchronous Operations Lifecycle

> A single attempt to start a synchronous Nexus Operation may take up to 10 seconds to complete and will then timeout.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A synchronous Nexus Operation handler has less than 10 seconds to complete, as measured from the caller's Nexus Machinery, and will then timeout with a retryable error. The handler should stay within the context deadline to not timeout. The Nexus Operation will be retried by the caller's Nexus Machinery, until the operation's Start-to-Close timeout has been exceeded.
```

The lifecycle of a synchronous Nexus Operation, for example to do a Query or a Signal:

> 1. Caller’s Workflow does a `myServiceClient.ExecuteOperation()`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Caller’s Workflow executes a Nexus Operation using the Temporal SDK.
```

   1. **`NexusOperationScheduled`** added to caller’s Event History.
   2. Nexus Operation added to Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster.

>    3. Immediately returns an OperationHandle, so the Workflow does not block.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   3. Caller Workflow doesn’t automatically block on a Nexus Operation.
```

>    4. Caller’s Workflow can interact with the Operation using the OperationHandle.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   4. Caller’s Workflow can interact with the Nexus Operation execution:
```

>       1. `WaitStarted()`, `GetResult()`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      1. Wait for the Nexus Operation to start (not needed for synchronous operations)
      2. Wait for the Operation result
      3. Cancel the Nexus Operation (not allowed for synchronous operations)
```

> 2. Start Nexus operation on the target cluster is attempted by the caller’s Temporal cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. The caller’s Temporal cluster attempts to start the Nexus Operation on the target cluster via the Nexus Endpoint.
```

>    1. Via the Nexus Machinery in the target cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Nexus Machinery in the target cluster sync matches the Nexus request to a Worker polling the endpoint's target Namespace and Task Queue.
```

   2. Retries are processed by the Nexus Machinery in the caller’s Temporal cluster and tracked as part of the caller Workflow, similar to Activities.

> 3. Nexus Operation handler in the target cluster processes the Nexus Operation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Nexus Operation handler processes the Nexus Operation.
```

>    1. Operation handler pulls operation Nexus Task from Task Queue.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Handler Worker get a Nexus Task from Task Queue.
```

   2. Operation handler starts a Workflow in the target cluster.
   3. Operation result is returned inline, since the operation is synchronous.
   4. **`NexusOperationCompleted`** added to caller’s Event History.

> 4. Caller’s Workflow `handle.GetResult()` returns the result.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Caller’s Workflow code is returned the result if requested.
```

> #### Executing Arbitrary (non-durable code) from a Sync Handler {#executing-arbitrary-(non-durable-code)-from-a-sync-handler}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Executing Arbitrary Code from a Synchronous Nexus Operation Handler {#executing-arbitrary-(non-durable-code)-from-a-sync-handler}
```

> Nexus Operation handlers can execute arbitrary code, but unlike Activities they should be relatively short-lived, due to the lack of [heartbeats](https://community.temporal.io/t/best-practices-for-long-running-Activities/934) and a default 10 second NexusOperationStarted timeout. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Synchronous Nexus Operation handlers can execute arbitrary code, but unlike Activities they should be short-lived. As mentioned above a synchronous Nexus Operation handler has less than 10 seconds to process a Nexus start operation request and should stay within the context deadline provided by the Temporal SDK.
```

> Nexus Operation handlers may execute arbitrary code or use a Temporal Client to interact with Temporal APIs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

### Automatic Retries {#automatic-retries}

Once the caller Workflow schedules an Operation with the caller’s Temporal cluster, the caller’s Nexus Machinery keeps trying to start the Operation, with automatic retries and exponential backoff. 
If a Nexus Operation returns a [retryable error](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/13d6cd8cf7a4ba0c4660cf98f672bbd645dca3e7/components/nexusoperations/executors.go#L659) when attempting to start, the Operation it will be retried up to the [default Retry Policy’s](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal/blob/de7c8879e103be666a7b067cc1b247f0ac63c25c/components/nexusoperations/config.go#L111) max attempts and expiration interval.

### Execution Semantics {#execution-semantics}

#### At-least-once Execution Semantics and idempotency

> Since the caller's Nexus Machinery will keep trying to start the Operation over and over, the Nexus Operation handler should be idempotent just like Activities should be idempotent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the caller's Nexus Machinery will keep trying to start the Operation multiple times, the Nexus Operation handler should be idempotent, like Activities. 
```

It's not required in all cases, but highly recommended in general. 
With retries an Operation, like Activities, has at-least-once execution semantics, so an Operation should be idempotent as a general rule.

#### At-most-once Execution Semantics through an Underlying WorkflowIDReusePolicy

> To dedupe work and get at-most-once execution semantics, an Operation can start a Workflow with a WorkflowIDReusePolicy of RejectDuplicates which only allows one Workflow Execution per Workflow ID within a Namespace for the Retention Period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deduplicate work and get at-most-once execution semantics, an Operation can start a Workflow with a WorkflowIDReusePolicy of RejectDuplicates which only allows one Workflow Execution per Workflow ID within a Namespace for the Retention Period.
```
Dedupe is shorthand for deduplicate. Better to use full word than shorthand.
